intro:
understandin of risk profitability of company trough the anaysis of quaterly and anual reports.
it is selection, interprtation,evaluation along with other persistant data for investment purpose.
it is used to employee performance internally and company performance for external users.
credit worthyness amoung barrowers.
primary source data anual report
1)income, balance sheet, cf 
2)liquidity and solency
3)equity valuation to reduce uncertanity and improve the confedance

financial status
anaysis means establishing a meaning full relatin betwwen various financial statements in such a way to get a conclusion
and helps in assesing corporate excellence, judging credit worthieness,forcasting bond rating, evaluating intrinsic valve of equity shares

they are 1)p&Lstatements 2)balnce sheet are indicators of profitability and finncial soundness and future prospects.

profitabity:
wheather there are profitaable returns form the investments

indicate the trand of achivements:
assessing the growth potential of business:
comparative position in relationn to other firms
sales, expense,profitabilty and utilissing of funds.
assess the financial strenth of business:

assess solvency of firm

types of FS:
trend analysis

income statements,blance sheet, statement of retained earnings and CF statements

comparitive balance sheet are shown a comparision on periodic change, % change

comman sized analysis is % campasion of total assets and total lability as 100

ratio analysis:
arthaamatical relaion fromed out of financial reports
simplification of accounting data it is simplified summarised analysis of financial reports

focus on trends slaes,income,
selling standards

advantages and uses of ratio analysis
to work out profitabilty, eraning capacity and solvency shows us libilities aand assets relation 
comparitive and analysis to simplyfy the accouting information
to work out the operaation efficiency by liquidity ratio
helpful in forecasting purpose 

limitation:
limited comparibility due to differant method.
false results.
effect of price level changes.
qualitative factors are ignored.
effect of window dressing.
costly technices.
misleading results.
absence of standard university accepted terminology.

FM:
the objective of maximization of company economic welfare.two criteria
1)profit maximisation
2)wealth maximisation